My name's Dave O'Rourke.
We're going to be talking about
Xgrid here for a little bit.
A little later on,
I'm going to be bringing up my coworker,
David Kraemer,
and he's going to be doing some demos
and showing you some sample code.
Those are our names.
So, as with most presentations,
we're going to start
out with an overview.
I'm going to give you a quick,
brief introduction where
Apple positions Xgrid,
what we think it's good for,
and generally try to bring people
up to speed that may not have
dealt with the previous previews.
We had a technical
preview and a preview 2.
We'll cover that in a bit.
So what will you learn today?
First of all,
we're going to have an overview.
I've discussed that.
We're going to go a little
bit into the architecture.
Not everyone's familiar
with grid architecture,
so we're going to do some diagrams
for you and hopefully show you
guys how the grid and actually
how simple it actually is but how
much power you can derive from it.
We'll then go into administration.
We have a host of administration
tools that we've included with Tiger.
That makes things a lot easier to set up,
manage, maintain, and monitor.
We'll be talking about job submission.
There is no grid without job submission.
It's an important topic.
We'll be diagramming the workflow for you
there and hope to give you a mental model
of how the grid's actually taking code
and executing it out on someone's iMac.
We're going to talk about how to develop.
You will leave this room with sample code
for a grid-enabled Cocoa application.
The sample code's on the DVD.
You guys can play along while
we're coding up here on screen.
So, introduction.
X Grid is Apple's distributed
computing solution.
The slide says that,
you didn't need me to say that.
But what it does is we've built
this into the operating system.
So by saying it's Apple's grid solution,
you as a developer and you as a system
administrator can rely on it being there.
This allows distributed processing of
grid jobs to make workflow go faster.
Hopefully that's what people realize.
If you're going to grid
enable your software,
you're going to do things to try to
take advantage of the grid resources
and make things go much quicker.
Again, the emphasis here is this
is now built into Tiger.
It's Apple's solution for grid computing.
You can start relying on this
technology being present.
Tiger's server comes with X Grid.
The X Grid agent is on
every Tiger machine.
And we have also provided an
agent install for Panther.
So you have a mixed environment,
some Panther machines,
some Tiger workstations.
You can install the X Grid agent on
Panther and you can fully utilize
your entire computing network.
The Tiger development tools
are also included and support
all the XGrid frameworks,
all the XGrid functionality.
We'll be going into that in a lot more
detail later on in the presentation.
But you can use Tiger with Xcode to
develop grid-enabled software today.
There's nothing else
you need to download.
For those of you who have been
with XGrid a little longer,
we thought we'd put up a timeline to
kind of orient you as to where we are.
Back in January 2004,
we had a technical preview.
That came out.
A lot of people jumped on it and
immediately started using it.
Gave us some excellent feedback.
We love the feedback we got
from the technical preview.
That led to technical preview 2.
Again,
the community got a little bigger then,
got a little more feedback,
and a lot of the feedback from technical
preview 2 is now being delivered to you
in commercial quality form in Tiger.
So this is an ongoing effort.
We hope to get some feedback at the end
of this session and ongoing feedback
as more and more people adopt XGrid
and now that it's built into Tiger.
This is just the beginning for Apple,
and we think the grid-enabled
technology is a core.
or differentiator for our operating
system to come with standard.
So what sort of solutions
does Xgrid enable?
Well,
the first solution it enables is--we
wanted to do what Apple always does,
is we wanted to make this so
average humans can set grids up.
I don't know about you,
but I didn't know how to
set up a grid 12 months ago,
and I can set up an Xgrid.
I've seen a lot of people who
didn't think they could set up
a grid able to set up a grid.
So Apple not only built grid-enabled
software into their operating system,
which I'm surprised, you know,
there isn't more call-out for that,
but we've made it so that
mere mortals can set it up.
We've built the support
into Tiger Desktop.
into Tiger Server.
You need nothing else to deploy a grid.
The administration tools are
provided with Tiger Server.
They're integrated into the
Tiger Server administration tools,
so there's no separate set of
administration tools for configuring
the grid or managing the controller.
Xgrid Agent is available
for install in Panther,
as I mentioned earlier,
so this eases your deployment burdens.
You don't have to upgrade your
entire network to Tiger all at once,
although we highly recommend
that and get a site license.
Ernie can talk to you
after the conference.
But if you can't do that or
aren't willing to do that,
we do provide the grid agent for Panther.
We also wanted to make sure that
if the grid agent's enabled,
that it just doesn't take
over the user's machine.
If the user's volunteering their
machine to be part of the grid,
they still want iPhoto to work well,
they want Pages to work well,
they want Keynote to work well,
they want Final Cut Pro to work well.
So the grid has knowledge and
accommodations into it to not do grid
tasks when users are using the computer.
This is obviously configurable.
You can turn it off.
We'll go over that later.
But the goal was to allow people
to be part of the grid without it
dominating their daily workflow.
We support various grid computing styles.
For those of you who were here last year,
I wasn't up on stage last year.
That's because I wasn't the
XGrid manager last year.
So when I inherited XGrid,
one of the first things that David Kramer
sat down and did was tell me that we
supported various computing styles.
I didn't know what those were.
So this will be a quick tutorial.
It was useful for me.
Hopefully it's useful for you.
The first and most obvious
computing style for a grid
is dedicated participants.
That's represented by the grid
over here you see in the gray
box on the end of the stage.
This is sometimes referred
to as the Beowulf model.
This is writing a check to
Apple Computer for a very small
sum of money for a very large
amount of compute power to buy
20 rack machines and dedicating
those to doing some DNA analysis,
doing some financial analysis
or something like that.
XGrid fully supports that model.
This is racks of XSERVs
or closets of Mac minis.
Yes, we've had questions with people
wanting to run Mac minis as well.
We've had questions with people
wanting to run Mac minis.
They're great space saving utility.
I personally like the G5 for the big
heavy iron stuff a little bit better.
But yes, XGrid would fully support
a closet full of Mac minis.
I actually haven't done the math.
I wonder how many minis you
could fit in the average closet.
Part time participants.
How many of you run SETI at home?
Okay.
This is -- you're volunteering
your computer resources but
you're not using your computer.
XGrid fully supports this model as well.
This, you know,
people can volunteer their computer.
The grid will know about it and if
it gets any jobs it will schedule
it on the volunteer's computer.
So we support that type
of computing model.
This is great for underutilized
office and university computers.
Think of how much compute power is
on your campus or your work site or
your data center on the weekends when
everybody breaks on Friday at 3:00 p.m.
and doesn't come until
Monday at 10:00 a.m.
You know, there's a lot of compute
power over the weekend.
There's a lot of compute power.
So this is a great way to more
fully utilize your computer.
You can also use your computer resources
by running weekend jobs or running
overnight jobs even when people break
at 5:00 and don't come back to the
next morning until 9:00 or 8:30.
Idle cycle recovery on a
global scale or -- yeah,
on a global scale.
We can recover idle cycles from Japan.
My manager, Kazoo,
is like setting up a grid and
his grandmother apparently is
donating her computer from Japan.
And he runs grid jobs on her computer so
he can harvest that extra 1.8 gigahertz
G5 all the way across the country.
But we can do that.
It's all based on TCP/IP.
The agents can be located
anywhere in the world.
So who can benefit from X-Rit?
The first thing that we've done with the
grid computer is by building it into 10
server and building it into the desktop,
we've made grid computing
like a print service.
It's a service that the
IT department can set up,
maintain,
but they don't have to write the jobs,
they don't have to do it.
It's a service that they can
make available to a department,
and yet they can host
it in the data center,
they can manage it.
They don't have to know
anything about grid computing,
but they can put the data in it.
So it's just like mail, file, or print.
Grid is now an option that you can deploy
right after you set up your mail server.
So the IT department can host it,
manage it, but the scientists can use it,
just like the scientists
use the color printers.
Software developers.
If you're a software developer,
you can use the grid to make
your software run faster,
or in some cases, not even run faster,
but do more options.
An idea we're kicking around is,
you know,
what if you were to render things and
render multiple copies of the same
thing so that when you get it back,
you can actually review multiple copies.
A graphics converter,
if that developer's in the audience,
you know,
he could do multiple conversions
in parallel on the grid,
and convert a JPEG to all,
to five different formats,
and do it much faster by distributing
the work out to the grid.
Scientists and engineers,
this is the most obvious
and historic market.
The scientists and engineers
like the grid because we built
in a lot of features for them.
One of the features they wanted was
persistent job queue submission.
Something that people
don't quite realize,
and I'll point it out when we go
through the architecture slides,
is when you submit a job,
the computer that submitted
the job to the grid can be,
you can slap the computer in the face,
and it'll do it.
You can slap the computer in the face,
You can slap the lid closed
and take off for the weekend.
The grid will continue
working on your job.
So the job queue, just like a print job,
is persistent.
The grid will continue working the job,
it will collect the results,
and it will hold the results
until that computer reconnects
to the grid and collects the
results back from the controller.
This is fantastic.
Big compute job,
going to work for several hours
or several days on the grid,
going to do a lot of computation.
I don't want to have to have my
power book where I submitted the job
sitting there for that entire time.
I'm going to close it,
I'm going to take it home,
and I'm going to play World of Warcraft,
and I'm going to put a link on it.
So the grid works on your job while
you're away or while you sleep.
Creative professionals.
Apple being so strong
in the creative market,
we feel there's huge opportunity for
third-party developers to start treating
the grid as a built-in support component
for developers' creative applications.
There's so much you can do with the grid.
If you can assume you have 5, 10, 15, 20,
200 computers at your disposal,
you can start doing things
you never even considered.
We have Cocoa APIs,
we have Objective-C APIs.
You can build it right into your
application so that the user doesn't
even have to know they're using a grid.
You can just make your
application go faster.
Terminology,
when you're sitting down and talking
about a new technology like X-Grid,
it's always useful to get
the terminology out so that
everyone's talking the same things.
X-Grid's simple but, you know,
the terms will help us
have a further conversation
throughout this presentation.
So the first terminology that we
tend to throw around is the client.
Now,
for the purposes of this presentation,
the client is any computer on the net
that's doing a job submission to a grid.
That's the equivalent of the user
choosing print and submitting it to
the print spool or that's the client.
User choosing send my job to the grid,
they're the client.
These are the people that have
work that needs to be done.
The controller.
The controller accepts the job,
parses the job, and figures out, well,
who can I get to schedule this work on?
It figures out, okay,
I've got 200 computers.
This task has 10 things.
All right, how many computers do
I need to use to do that?
It does all the matching
or all the brokering for,
you know, given a job,
how do I make it all,
get it all scheduled and get all
the results out and collected.
So it manages the job scheduling,
the data movement, and the agents.
The agents are the computers that
have been joined to the grid,
and they're the ones that are
going to do the actual work.
These are the idle G5s in your
computer labs at universities.
They join the grid.
They are now available to the
grid to schedule works that
the clients submit as jobs.
So these can be anything from
high-end dual 2.7 G5s to older
underutilized blue and white G3s
or even a closet full of Mac minis.
So the agent is the place where
the job actually executes,
where the computational
resources are consumed,
the results are collected from.
work is scheduled and
executed on the agent.
If your grid job has been properly
composed into multiple jobs,
the grid will execute as much
work in parallel as possible.
So you're not submitting a job to the
grid and just having it execute Task 1
on Agent 1 and then waiting for that
to finish and Task 2 goes on Agent 2.
The grid will figure out as much work as
possible that can be done in parallel.
This is where you pick up the
grid's performance capabilities.
You can have the grid working
on things in parallel.
Huge, huge computational benefit.
Client, which we discussed.
You have the controller
and you have agents.
But hopefully with your grid,
this is a lot of overhead
just to have one agent.
Hopefully you have more than one agent.
You have as many agents as
you can lay your hands on.
And you don't have just one client.
There's not just one scientist,
one financial analysis,
or one creative content
professional doing renders.
There are multiple people that are
using the grid and they don't have to
worry about how many agents there are.
They don't have to worry
about where the controller is.
They don't have to worry about
what jobs are running local,
what jobs are running remotely.
They can just use the grid as a
resource to make their workflow go
faster or to accomplish a task such as,
you know,
calculating pi to the 10 billionth
digit or something along those lines.
Or something much more
meaningful such as curing cancer.
The terminology for the grid is the
grid is a set of agents and a job queue.
The job queue controls
the list of workers.
It controls the list of work that's
going to be scheduled on the agent.
There are jobs.
A job is a set of tasks that
are definable and atomic.
It's a collection of
input and output data.
This is huge because we put
all the data onto the agents.
And a task.
This is the smallest piece of work to do.
And this is the little thing that takes,
you know, a number,
runs a fast Fourier transform on it,
and transforms it into something else.
These are command line executables.
They can take arguments.
They take working directory files.
And they also work with standard input.
So with the three-tier architecture,
not only do you have clients,
controllers, and agents,
you can subdivide the agents,
if you want to, into virtual grids.
So you could take all of your
computing resources on campus,
join them to the controller,
and I can dedicate, you know,
the top three iMacs to the physics grid,
the middle to the biology grid,
and finance can have all the iMac
minis in the closet at the bottom.
Or you can combine all the
resources into one uber grid and
use all the resources you want.
The point is,
you as the administrator have
control over how the agents are
used and how they're scheduled.
So what does xGrid do?
It groups agents into grids,
as seen by the previous slide.
It monitors agent availability.
This is very big.
While the agents are
a member of the grid,
the grid controller knows whether
the agent is currently awake,
asleep, idle, so on and so forth.
So the controller,
when it receives a job,
already knows what agents are
available for it to schedule work on.
This is a huge deal.
This means we're not farming
tasks out to agents that have
been put to sleep ages ago.
We know that the agent's up.
We know it's alive.
We know it's ready to work.
It manages queues of jobs
and their dependencies.
This is, in my opinion, somewhat obvious,
but that's what the controller does,
is it manages the jobs.
There's ways you can describe to xGrid
that this job has to complete before
this other job's appropriate to run,
so you can manage the dependency.
The controller makes sure that
everything executes in the proper order,
and then it has all the necessary data
that it needs to keep everything flowing.
It schedules runnable jobs,
so it knows which agent has a job.
It schedules it on it.
It monitors the agent's results and
collects them when they're done.
And I can't emphasize
this fifth bullet enough.
We on xGrid handle the data staging.
One of the big things about
grid computing is getting the
input data onto the agent,
and there's all sorts of
different ways to do that.
Some people set up NFS mounts.
Other people write FTP scripts,
so on and so forth.
xGrid's really beautiful
in this particular area.
We take care of staging the
input data onto the client,
so you can have a client with
absolutely nothing on it.
And when someone submits a job to Xgrid,
the Xgrid controller makes sure
the agent has the executable,
makes sure it has the input data,
and we collect up all the output data.
So the agents don't have to have
anything pre-installed on them.
The Xgrid controller will get
everything down to the agent
that it needs to run the job,
collect it all up, clean it up,
and leave the agent clean when
it's all done with the process.
So you don't have to wander around
to 1,500 machines and pre-install
all of your grid-enabled software.
The controller will take care of
getting all of that to the agents.
So you can take a
Tiger machine out of the box,
plug it in,
do any additional data install,
join it to the grid,
and if there's jobs being
scheduled on that grid,
that agent will immediately
be put to work if it meets the
criteria for the job scheduling.
No additional software
installs are required.
This is a huge thing that goes...
Not only do we think it's obvious,
but it also is one of the ease-of-use
things that we've put into the grid.
And it recovers from failures.
It wouldn't do the scientists a lot
of good if you submitted the job and
just because one of the agents got put
to sleep or someone tripped over the
power cord that the job didn't run.
The controller knows when the job's done,
it knows the job was scheduled.
If the job doesn't finish
executing and the agent goes away,
it'll reschedule the
job on another agent.
So we are always working--we always
make a best effort to fully execute
the jobs as they are submitted,
and because we have the agent status,
we can do that.
What are the new features in Tiger?
This is mostly a slide for people that
were familiar with Technical Preview
1 and Technical Preview 2.
The first thing we added
was authentication.
Well, grids are a computing resource.
So, you might not want everyone on
your campus being able to submit
a job to the grid so we've added
Kerberos based authentication so
that you can restrict the grid to
only being used by certain people.
This fits in with open directory
and ties in with the rest
of the server architecture.
Cocoa Developer APIs,
you can now as a Cocoa Developer very
easily integrate the grid into your
Cocoa application such that using
the grid is seamless to your user.
We'll be going through a code
example later in this presentation.
Server administration integration,
I mentioned this earlier.
We provide a full suite of server
administration tools to administer
the agents and the controller.
Xgrid Admin Application,
this is what lets you monitor your jobs,
excuse me,
lets you monitor your jobs and see
their job status and so on and so forth.
Multiple task per job, didn't have that.
We now allow a single job to
say I need to do multiple tasks.
This seems kind of obvious but
we previously didn't have that.
So, we now can have multiple
tasks be part of a single job.
Task and job dependencies
is a huge feature.
This way you can post a single job
that has a number of dependencies
and needs to be run in segments.
The controller won't schedule the
jobs before they're ready to be run.
Where are the components?
Well, Tiger comes with the
agent already installed.
How many of you have
Tiger on your power book?
If you open -- oh, wow.
Thank you, thank you very much.
If you open up sharing,
you'll see Xgrid on the sharing panel.
Xgrid's installed on Tiger desktop.
If I gave you the password to the
controller up here on campus you could
all become agents and we'd schedule
all sorts of jobs on your power books
while you're doing this presentation.
We have a client framework
and CLI tool and their code
examples and the developer tools.
In addition,
Tiger server comes with the controller
and all the administration tools.
So if you have Tiger desktop
you already have an agent.
If you have Tiger server you already have
everything you need to set up a grid.
So what are you waiting for?
And again,
for those of you who can't go to
Tiger but you still have Panther,
we do have an agent available
for install on Panther.
David, is that in the install on
the Tiger server or do they
download that from the web?
Download?
Yeah,
so you download the Panther agent as
an installer package from the web.
Amen.
We do support message passing.
For those of you who do grid programming,
MPI is a very big deal.
We have sample codes to show
how to submit Mac MPI jobs,
which is a legacy or
pre-existing grid technology.
Those are at this URL.
And OpenMPI,
a big grid consortium of people
who do a lot of MPI development,
have actually modified their
MPI run command to use Xgrid.
You can get more information
about that from www.openmpi.org.
They're big fans of Xgrid.
We've been working with them,
and we're looking forward
to their feedback.
So at this point in time,
I'd like to bring up the author
and primary contributor to Xgrid,
David Kraemer,
and he'll be taking you through some
demos and additional information.
Thank you.
Thank you, Dave.
So I'm going to talk to you
about Xgrid architecture.
So as Dave mentioned,
it's a three-tier architecture.
There's a client,
a controller and an agent.
The controller is the heart.
It's in the center.
It's the one that does the splitting and
the monitoring and collects the results.
And when the client is ready
to download the results,
it can get them.
So here's your client.
It's detachable.
As Dave mentioned,
you can shut the lid on the PowerBook,
take it home, and the job remains
queued on the controller.
Having the jobs queued on the
controller with no one to do
the work isn't very useful,
though.
So of course, you can have agents.
We have the full-time agents.
It's our rack right here.
You can have part-time agents.
That's your computer labs,
your workstations that
aren't used at night.
They can come when the user isn't
using the computer and join the grid.
And then finally,
you sort of have another
kind of part-time agents,
which are the internet agents.
And these are the volunteers across the
world who are participating in your grid
and helping you solve your problems.
So let's talk about security.
A lot of people have questions
about how secure Xgrid is,
or what the model is,
and how it controls access.
So first, there's the authentication.
And you have three choices.
One is none.
This is not very secure, of course.
But it is an option if you're
doing development or testing,
or you have a private network
that might be suitable for you.
There's also password and Kerberos.
And I will talk more about these
authentication methods in the next slide.
There's also privilege separation.
So the controller runs as its own user,
and so does the agent.
But the tasks that get run by
the agent don't run as that user.
And so the agent uses a helper
tool that runs as root to launch
the tasks as an unprivileged user,
or in the case of using
Kerberos authentication,
you can have the task run actually
as the user who submitted it.
So the task privileges, as I said,
runs Nobody under password
authentication or no authentication.
Otherwise, they run as a submitting user.
So no password.
Suitable for private networks only.
I use this in my own testing,
because it's more convenient
not to enter a password.
However, if you go to Kerberos,
then you've got single sign-ons,
so you only need to enter your password
once at the beginning of the session,
and then it's just as easy
to use as no password.
So I would highly recommend
getting Tiger Server,
setting up an open directory master,
turning on Kerberos,
and using that with X-Rid.
that will be most secure and you'll
get the most benefit out of that.
In the password case,
we don't send a password in
the clear over the network.
There's a two-way random
challenge response,
mutual authentication protocol used.
One more thing to mention about this
password is that it's a single password.
It's not per user.
So if you want ten people
to be able to use the grid,
you're going to give all ten
people the same password.
This may not be what you want,
in which case, if you want to go to
per user authentication,
you need to go to Kerberos.
As I said, Kerberos is the most secure.
It also provides confidentiality,
so we do encrypt all communication
going over the wire if you
use Kerberos authentication.
So you don't have to worry that
someone else is sniffing your
results from your thesis project that
you're going to publish next week.
This requires a directory
system and a KDC.
We recommend Open Directory Master.
However,
it does work also with Active Directory.
The client access is controlled by ACLs.
So you can specify exactly which
users or groups are allowed to
connect to the controller and
submit jobs and retrieve results.
The agent access is also controlled,
but it's only controlled by the presence
of a principal in the KDC database.
So if the agent has a principal,
it will be able to connect at this point.
There is no way to specify that only
certain agents are able to connect.
So I mentioned the
privilege separation before.
The Xgrid agent starts
as the user Xgrid agent,
and it's launched by launchd at startup,
or you can start it manually
using the xgrid-kiddle command.
immediately,
because it's launched by LaunchD,
it starts as root,
but it immediately lowers its privileges.
But before doing that,
it launches a helper tool,
and that helper tool also runs as root,
and it remains running as root.
So the helper tool doesn't have
any sockets open on the network.
It's not talking to anyone else
except the extroordination,
so you've got a little
bit more separation there,
a little bit more protection.
When the tasks actually run,
they get started by the helper,
they run as nobody or as the
submitting user in the case
of Kerberos authentication,
and the results actually get
sent directly back to the agent.
There's not an extra copy going
through the helper because of the
wonders of BSC file descriptor PASA.
So the discovery and authentication
is also an area where people
wonder about how it works.
They a lot of times think that maybe
they need to connect directly to the
agent to tell the agent what to do,
or they want to go out on the
network and gather all the agents.
And that's not how XSRID works.
The way XSRID works is that
the controller is the one that
opens the socket on the network.
It's the only one that
accepts network connections.
Everyone else has to find the controller.
So the first thing the controller
does when it starts up is it
advertises via Bonjour and says that,
"Hey, I'm here on the network."
Now the agents can be configured
to connect to this service,
or they can be configured to connect
to an IP address or a DNS name.
But using Bonjour,
they get instant notification
that the controller is available
and that they can connect.
Once they connect,
the mutual authentication occurs.
And both the controller and the agent
determine whether they are talking
to who they expect to be talking to.
The same thing happens with
the client in parallel.
The client gets the notification
that there's a controller online.
Presumably, if it's an application,
you've got some sort of browser,
or it's been pre-configured
to use that controller.
And so, again, the authentication occurs.
It's visual.
And everyone's happy at this point.
We're all connected,
and we're ready to actually do some work.
So the workflow follows a
mantra that we call the "Submit,
Monitor, and Retrieve."
So the first thing is the client has
some work to do and packages it up as a
job and sends it off to the controller.
And the controller splits the
job up into tasks and sends
the tasks off to the agents.
So now that the agents get the work,
They start doing the work,
and once they're done
spinning the little icons,
they presumably have
finished the computation,
and they can send the results back.
But in the meantime,
if one of these agents had gone offline,
the controller all this time
is monitoring the progress of
these computations and will
reschedule the work if necessary.
Once all the work is done,
it gets sent back to the controller.
The controller collects
the results and stores it,
waiting for the client
to retrieve the results.
It notifies the client as soon
as the results are available,
so the client doesn't
have to keep polling,
asking, "Are we there yet?
Are we there yet?
Are we there yet?"
So you retrieve the results,
and that's the entire workflow-- submit,
monitor, retrieve.
And--sorry.
We'll get there.
Almost there.
All right.
And now I have a demo to show you
of doing audio encoding on the grid.
So can I have demo one, please?
So we have this little demo
app that we put together.
And the first thing it does is it allows
us to browse for controllers here.
And so we're going to connect to the
top exer-- over in our rack here.
And we've got a job queue up there.
Not much going on yet.
We're going to drag some
audio files in there.
And they're AIF.
And we're going to encode them into AAC.
We're using the AF Convert
sample code that should come in
with all your developer tools.
Nothing real special going on.
We're just doing the encoding.
I ran the encoder on my machine last
night to see how long it took to do
these files serially on one computer.
And it took about 2 and 1/2 minutes to
encode 600 megabytes of AIF on a G5.
So, presumably on this XServe rack,
we're going to go a little bit
faster than two and a half minutes.
Hopefully all the lights
are lighting up over there,
and we can see all the
jobs have started running,
and hopefully a little progress
will go by on a few of them.
And they keep going, and it looks like a
couple of them are done.
Looks like they're just about all done.
Almost.
Getting there.
So instead of two and a half minutes,
it looks like we got this down
to about 20 or 30 seconds.
So that's the power of using the grid.
And there you go,
you see we've got our AIFs
and we've got our AACs,
which are about 10 times smaller.
Alright, let's go back to the slides.
So now, how do you administer your grid?
It's clear how to submit jobs.
You just drag files into a window, right?
But administering is a
little bit more complicated.
You want to think about how you
want to partition your resources up
and also how to just have them all
configured to find the controller,
because that's the one thing.
Everyone needs to know where
the controller is or at least
know the name of the controller.
So we have various
administration avenues.
The first is the sharing preferences,
which configure the Tiger agent.
There's also the separate pref pane
that configures the Panther agent.
There's the server admin application,
which you use to actually
start the processes,
to start the controller
and start the agent.
You also can configure it,
and it gives you the same
configuration options for the agent
as the sharing preferences pane.
And I'll go into the details more later.
There's also the XGrid admin application,
and this is the one you use once you've
started the controller and configured
all the agents to find the controller.
You then use XGrid admin to
partition the agents into grids,
to monitor the job queue,
to see how much of the
performance you're utilizing,
just to get a broad overview.
It's the administration application
to monitor the grid while it's in use.
So here's a screenshot from
the sharing preferences.
Down there at the bottom,
you've got the XGrid item,
and that's selected.
And so you've got a start/stop
button and a configure button.
Pretty simple.
When you configure things,
these are your choices.
You specify the controller.
You can either enter a Rendezvous or,
excuse me, Bonjour service name,
or a DNS name or an IP address.
You also get to specify whether it's
a part-time or dedicated resource.
In the part-time case,
when you only accept tasks
when the computer is idle,
idle is determined by 15
minutes of no user activity.
It doesn't look at
network or disk access.
It looks purely at mouse and
keyboard activity to determine
if the computer is idle.
If a user comes back and moves
the mouse or types something
after a task has started,
that task will complete,
but no new tasks will be
accepted by the agent.
And then finally, you get to choose which
authentication method you want to
use to connect to the controller.
And this gives you the choice of none,
password, and Kerberos.
In Server Admin, you get some of the same
agent configuration controls,
but you also get an overview of
both the controller and the agent,
as well as settings to
set for the controller.
So first, you've got to add your
server with Server Admin.
You select the service
You choose which tab you want to look at.
In this case,
we're looking at the Overview.
There's also the Logs,
which lets you see the messages that
are put in the system log by Xgrid,
and then the actual settings
where you get to set up the
agent and the controller.
And then finally, once you've set up the
agent and controller,
you need to press the Start button.
In this case, it's already started,
so you would click the
Stop button to stop the services.
On the Overview tab here,
we see at the top,
you've got your agent information,
and at the bottom,
you've got the statistics
about the controller.
So once you've actually gone
to the Settings tab and you
choose the Agent Settings,
you can enable the agent.
You can set the exact same settings
as in the sharing prefs--dedicated,
part-time,
and which authentication method.
The controller settings are very similar.
You can enable,
and then you get to choose the
authentication method used for
clients and the authentication
method used for the agents.
And these can be different if you want.
If you do want to have the
Kerberos support for running
tasks as the user that submitted,
you need end-to-end
Kerberos authentication,
so both clients and agents
need to be using Kerberos.
One more thing to talk about in
Server Admin is the Service Ackles.
These allow you to control which clients
can connect to the Xgrid controller.
So you select the server,
You choose the settings,
you choose access, you choose the Xgrid
service from the services,
and then over here on the right,
you get to add the users and
the groups that you want to
allow to use the service.
Next is the Xgrid Admin Application.
This is the one you're going to
use to actually monitor the status
of the grid while it's running.
This is the overview
tab of the application.
We've got a tachometer here that gives
you the currently active CPU power of the
grid-- all the grids in your controller,
in this case.
The CPU power is simply the
sum of the gigahertz of the
clock CPUs of all the CPUs.
So if you've got a dual 2.0,
that's 4 gigahertz of CPU power.
If you've got a G4 400,
that's 400 megahertz of CPU power,
one-tenth this amount.
You get to add the server--the controller
you want to connect to with this app.
Then you get a list of all the grids.
You can add more grids.
You can rename the grids.
You can choose which
grid is the default grid.
When someone submits a job to the
controller and doesn't specify
which grid they want to use,
it goes to the default grid.
And then you've got the overview,
the agents list, and the jobs list,
and I will show you those in a moment.
On the overview tab,
in addition to the statistics,
you have the tachometer, as I said.
The statistics are very similar
to what you saw in Server Admin.
When you go to the Agents tab,
you get a list of the agents
that are in the grid or being
managed by the entire controller.
You can use the search widget up there
in the toolbar to narrow the list if you
have a lot of agents and you're looking
for the status of a particular one.
And then down at the bottom,
when you select an agent,
you get a little bit more
information about that agent,
how many processors it has,
and how many of those
are currently in use.
And then the job queue,
probably the most interesting
part of this application,
lets you actually see
which jobs are running.
It shows you the progress,
when they started,
when they finished that they finished,
or whether they failed or were canceled.
And you have control to pause
jobs and cancel them using the
buttons down at the bottom.
So you have the job list.
Again,
you can use the search widget to find a
job you're particularly interested in.
And then down at the bottom,
you get the statistics about the job.
One thing to notice here is that
you can look at and see what
the identifier of the job is.
And the identifier is just the
string used by the controller
to uniquely identify the job.
This normally doesn't need
to be exposed to the user,
but if you're going to use the command
line tool to work with the grid,
this allows you to figure out
how to talk about this particular
job using the command line tool,
you would use the identifier
when using the command line tool.
Now I'm going to do a little demo.
I'm going to actually write
some code for you up on stage,
show you how to make your own job
submission interface using the Cocoa API.
So, last year I think I showed
people how to run Calendar.
CAL is a simple tool that
takes a couple arguments,
the month and the year,
and then it calculates a text
calendar and prints it out.
Let me show you.
It doesn't take very long.
But I would like you to ignore the
computational power of this and think
more in terms of how you would factor
your own computations out into a separate
small executable that takes various
arguments and depending on the arguments
does different things and presumably
if you can submit the same executable
to the grid with slightly different
arguments and run them in parallel,
you can get a lot of results
back that you can use.
This -- scientists might think
of this as a parameter study,
but for video encoding you can
imagine maybe different frames,
the number of frames -- the range of
frames as the argument to the tool
and then maybe also the file name
that you're going to be transcoding.
So first,
I have this grid calendar example,
which I haven't made any changes to,
really, from the sample code
that came with Xcode.
So connects--let's get rid of
these guys from our last demo.
And create a new job.
This is just grid sample, basically,
with the name change to
Grid Calendar so far.
I haven't made any code changes.
What this allows you to do,
the sample code lets you submit a job
that just runs shell with whatever
you type in the command field here
as the argument to -c of shell,
of sh.
So I can type echo
'world', submit the job,
it runs, it finishes,
and I see the results in there.
It echoed 'hello world' out.
Not too exciting, but at least it works.
However, for your own application,
you probably don't want to force
people to type a command line into
a text field to submit to the grid.
You'd like there to be a more interesting
user interface that is problem specific.
So in this case,
we're going to use the new date
picker control that's in Tiger to
choose which months and which years
we want to get the calendars for.
So, first thing I'll do.
is adding code to these files,
which don't have any code in them yet.
So this is the application delegate.
It's just a subclass of the grid sample
application delegate that's already
in your developer tools examples.
In case you're wondering, it's in
/developer/examples/xgrid/gridsample.
That was the interface.
We're not declaring any
new instance variables,
so there's really nothing there to show.
Here we're overriding one method
just to choose a new class for the
job submission interface controller.
This is just the way the grid
sample project is set up.
It's very easy to override the class
that's going to be the window controller
for the user interface so that we can
create our own method that responds to
the submit button and takes what's in
the user interface and turns it into a
job specification to submit to the grid.
I'm also going to fill in the stubs
on the new window controller here.
And now in this case,
we're going to--the interface is going
to have a start date and an end date
that we're going to use to determine
which months to calculate with Cal.
I'm going to leave the
implementation empty for now.
We're just going to make sure
I didn't introduce any typos.
Everything still builds.
And I need to change a couple
classes in the nib file now.
So I created a new application delegate.
So I need to change
the class of this guy.
It's currently
GridSampleApplicationDelegate.
I want it to be
GridCalendarApplicationDelegate.
That's it for the main menu.
And then we have the New Job Nib.
And this is the one that actually
gets shown when you choose
"Click New Job" from the toolbar.
This looks pretty good,
but we don't actually want to
specify the name or the command.
So we can get rid of these guys.
We want a start date.
We want an end date.
And we need a date picker.
So we got one of these.
Another one of these.
And... let's see, we don't need any time,
since we're just choosing
months and years.
So that's about it for the window.
I also need to change the
file's owner class here.
It's currently
GridSampleNewJobWindowController.
I want it to be
GridCalendarNewJobWindowController.
And so it looks like that
nib's looking pretty good.
However, nothing's connected yet,
so I'm going to use Cocoa Bindings to
bind these controls directly to the
instance variables that I defined.
So we've got the owner object,
we've got a start date,
End date.
And that should be it for our new job.
So, before I write any code,
let's just make sure
I didn't make any mistakes.
We'll run the app.
And sure enough,
it looks like everything's
working just fine.
So now, we have to actually take what's
in the user interface and turn
it into a job specification.
A job specification is a
dictionary that contains a number
of well-known keys and values.
So the way this code is set up is that
it will call a job specification method
when the submit button is clicked.
But before that,
we need to set up some initial
values so that the user
interface is just ready to go.
So it's a good demo just to click
Submit without having to enter anything.
So in this case,
we're just creating a new start date,
a new end date,
and setting them as the initial
values for those instance variables.
We also need to manage our memory,
as all good Cocoa programmers know.
And finally,
this is the interesting method here.
We're going to return the job
specification from this method
using what's in the user interface.
So, first thing I'm going to do is
put the dates in ascending order,
just for programming convenience.
So if the user enters a start date
that comes after the end date,
we'll just swap them.
It's very easy to do.
We have to do this conversion
here because the date picker
instance variables are NSDate,
but it's much easier to work
with NSCalendarDate when all you
care about are months and years.
Then we just compare them,
and if they're in descending order,
we swap the order so that
they're in ascending order.
The next thing we're going to do
here is create the name of the job.
So rather than have the user
enter the name of a job,
we're just going to calculate
it based on which the structure
of the job specification.
The first thing we do is we
create the task prototype.
Since we're going to submit a
single job that does say 12 months,
we're going to have each month
be a separate task so that
they can run in parallel.
And -- but since each task is going to
be running exactly the same command,
it's convenient to set up a
prototype that all of the tasks
that we submit are based on.
In this case,
it's a very simple prototype.
We're just specifying an
absolute path that we know
exists on all of the computers.
However, you could include input data,
the actual command data
with this task prototype,
which makes it much more
efficient to submit.
If you're submitting a thousand
tasks that all run the same command,
you don't want to submit that
command a thousand times.
You don't want to submit the
executable code a thousand times.
You just want to submit it once
and have them all use that.
So here we create the specification.
We set the command using
the command key and...
We create a prototype identifier,
which is just the name of
the command in this case,
because we only have one prototype.
It doesn't really
matter what the name is.
But you can have any
number of prototypes,
all keyed off a different name,
and then you can have some tasks
are based on one prototype,
other tasks based on another prototype.
So now with the prototype,
I'm going to create a test specification.
So again,
we start with the empty dictionary.
We've got those integers for
the start year and the start
month that we determined before
when we were creating the name.
We're going to use it now as a counter,
so we're going to assign
it to a current variable.
And we've got this while loop here,
and we're just going
to keep looping over,
creating tasks, and then we're going
to increment the month,
and then we'll increment the
year when we get to December.
So in this case,
we turn the month and the
year into strings because
arguments are always strings.
We put them in an array,
then we create the
specification in this case.
We're saying that it's based
on that task prototype that we
generated a few lines up and we're
going to use those arguments.
So each task is going to have unique
arguments but the same command.
Then, task identifier is any identifier
you want to use to identify
the task within the job.
It must be unique within the job but it
doesn't need to be unique across jobs.
It's solely for the person submitting
or the application submitting to be able
to then refer back to specific results
when you do retrieve the results and you
want to find the results of task 7 or
task B or whatever you called the task.
The identifier is an opaque string.
We add the task specification to the
larger task specifications dictionary
using the task identifier as the key.
And then we look for the end condition.
If we're not there,
we increment the month.
If we're off into month 13,
we're probably really meant to
be in January of the next year.
So we handle that, too.
Almost all of it,
the last part is putting it all
together into a job specification.
So you can specify an application
identifier when you submit jobs.
You can also specify when you
write an application using the
Cocoa API that you are only interested
in jobs with a particular identifier.
And this means that your job list in
your application if you do have a job
list will only be displaying the ones
that are relevant to that application
and not ones that were submitted by other
applications or by the command line tool.
So we set the name that
we determined before,
we set the application identifier,
we set the prototypes and we set
the specifications and that's it.
That's the whole job specification
that we've put together.
So let's see how that works.
So we've got my start
conditions in here already.
Let's do three years here.
We're going to try.
From January 2005 to December 2007.
Submit the job.
So you see the name was
generated based on that.
And you see the progress is going by.
As each task finishes,
the controller recognizes
that and increments the
progress a little bit further.
It's just going purely by.
If there's 36 tasks and
18 of them are done,
we're at 50%. So this
is going pretty quick.
As you saw,
CAL doesn't take any time to run.
But we can look at the results now.
And here they all are.
We've got January 2005 at the top.
And we've got December 2007
at the bottom.
So that's really how easy it is to
create your own user interface in your
Cocoa apps to submit jobs to the grid.
And that is it for that demo.
That pretty much wraps up our talk today.
I think I'll invite Ernie
Prabacher and Dava back up on
stage to take any questions.
But before we do,
let's just remind you to take a look
at the session website for this.
The grid calendar final code is
available on the session site,
as well as some documentation for
the Xgrid Foundation frameworks.
To see more how those are used,
I highly recommend looking
at the example code that does
come with the developer tools.